In this demo, we will see how to create a
BLOB and a storage account.
If you want to upload the BLOB, we'll need to
have storage accounts.
So it will be our first step, right?
We'll need to find a service that is called Storage
Account.
Use the plus button to create a resource as if
you did in previous demos.
We'll select Create and we'll need to provide the information
about subscription and resource groups.
We can use the resource group that we created during
our VM creation and after that we will need to
provide a storage account name that's global and unique also
to be informed in this info box.
So the name must be unique across all existing storage
account names in Azure.
It's very important otherwise you can create a storage account.
So I will create one where is like Sandra long
name to be sure that it's the unique one and
it's works.
Now you see I can continue, I will keep the
same region as it's close to me and I can
also select performance.
Is it standard or it's a premium one that I
would like to have If I need a low latency
or could be standard and I will need to select
redundancy option?
I have all redundancy options that we discuss LR, SG0RS,
ZRS&GZRSI will select LRS if it's less expensive one and
I'm using the storage account just for a demo.
And there are also different advanced options for security that
you don't need to know to pass anything on 100
exam, but you need to know that you have extra
feature if you want to enhance your security.
After that we have networking.
I will keep by default that I want to have
a public access from all networks.
But if I want to have access just from selected
specific virtual network I can select it here or if
I want to just some IP addresses can access my
storage account.
I can also modify it.
On this page we have a data protection option that
is very interesting because we have a soft delete.
Soft delete means if I delete some element or some
BLOB, it's all kept for seven days in my trash
bin.
So by default it's seven days and it's helps to
protect the data from accidental deletion for example.
And if you want you can modify the number of
days.
On this page we have also encryption.
If I want to go for example for custom manager
keys for encryption, no worries.
Again it's a bit out of scope of 18 and
100, but you have those advanced options.
Here we have tags as we had then on previous
resource creation and then we have review and we can
create our storage account.
Let's hit create starting the deployment and usually it still
takes 1-2 minutes to create your storage account.
And after that we can go inside and create our
container to add a BLOB inside.
So deployment is in progress.
Let's wait a bit.
Wonderful.
Our resources created, Let's go to our storage account.
So here we have an overview and as well we
have data storage with four different options that we saw
on our deck Containers, file shares, queues and tables.
For block creation we will need to use containers.
So we'll select in data storage containers and add a
new container VRR plus button.
Let's select the container and provide a name to it
8900 and we have different public access level, private non
anonymous access BLOB anonymous read access for blobs or containers.
For give anonymous access for read to our containers and
to our blobs I will use a private one and
if I want I can also set up encryptions extra
capabilities in advanced.
But for the simple demo I will just select private
public access and create my container.
After I can go inside of my container and upload
a BLOB.
Inside I will browse for files.
Here I have one BLOB that I prepared and I
will click upload.
So we have successful upload our BLOB and now let's
say we want to share it.
I have an overlay link here to my blog, but
if I would like to share with some external users
as it's in private access, I will need to generate
a key.
You see, I have here a SAS, so if I
would like now to share it with someone out of
my organization to see this image I will use Generate
SAS and I can provide just in time access to
my BLOB in Private access.
So it's very important to select the permissions.
I will just read access to this BLOB and select
when I'm given access.
And I can generate a SAS token to have temporary
access to this image outside of my organization.
And to test it, let's open new in private tab
and try to access our image.
And here we have a beautiful statement.
Keep calm and configure Azure.
It's what we're learning together today.
So thank you for your attention to this demo.
We saw together that we need first to create a
storage account.
After that, we will create a container and upload BLOB
inside and we can share it.
Thanks to SAS for a specific amount of time.
Thank you for your attention.
Let's come back to our presentation.